\section{Goals}

\label{sec:goals}

\subsection{Core Features}

The goal of this project is to implement a truthful decentralised prediction
market in which users may specify the bets on which to trade. The market
outcomes will be decided by peer prediction, in which events are settled by a
subset of the users known as arbiters. A user may even act as an arbiter in a
market in which they themselves may hold a stake. Specifically, we seek to:

\begin{enumerate}
		\label{enm:goals}
	\item create a web application on which users can create custom bets and
		trade on these markets 
	\item implement a trading mechanism that allows users to buy and sell
		shares in the user-made securities using play money
	\item crowdsource outcome determination using reports from arbiters who may
		hold positions in the market
	\item incentivise truthful behaviour at all stages in the mechanism
\end{enumerate}

These goals will largely be achieved by implementing the mechanism outlined by
Freeman et al.~\cite{Freeman2017}, albeit with several practical modifications.
The first three goals cover core functionality of any decentralised prediction
market, while the fourth is concerned with the tuning of system parameters, in
order to ensure that users do not manipulate the mechanism. Thus, users are
discouraged from attempting to ``game'' the system for personal gain as it is
in their best interests to be truthful.

Other non-essential features but highly desirable for strong user experience
include asynchronous communication with the server in order to display
up-to-date pricing information to the user without a page refresh, and the
automated closing of markets. Both of these features would make the system
straightforward and intuitive to use. Moreover, it would allow the system to
run independently since we need not monitor and close markets by hand, meaning
the market's functioning is only influenced by the community, one of the key
points of implementing a decentralised market.

As we will discuss in more detail in Section~\ref{sec:design}, one aspect of
the mechanism is the assumption that the system knows the signal error rates
when user's receive news about a market's outcome. This is unrealistic in
practice, since we have no way of knowing how users learn about the outcome of
an event, nor the accuracy of this source's reporting (particularly important
for highly subjective bets). Hence we also look to calculate an arbiter's
average signal accuracy based on their past reporting history, instead of
having them estimate its accuracy each time they submit a report. This leaves
less opportunity to game the system, the entire point of implementing this
prediction market mechanism.

\subsection{Stretch Features}

With more time, there are plenty of additional features that could be
implemented to render the system more intuitive and usable. These include the
option to create different types of markets, particularly categorical ones
since they would function similarly to binary markets but allow multiple
related markets to be expressed more succinctly. Furthermore, the option to
create and sort markets by categories would help users offer their information
more readily if they are especially interested in a certain topic, say politics
or sport.

A useful feature to implement would be the tracking of price histories for each
security. This would enable graphs to be generated so that users could be more
informed on how the forecast of an event has changed over time and would bring
participation in the market more in line with what traders would experience in
a real exchange.

Finally, an issue with the mechanism of Freeman et al.\ as it stands is that it
does not directly punish users for creating markets on ambiguous bets. Traders
may become confused about the wording, leading to different interpretations of
the security and could result in users trading on different assumptions -- this
is not useful for information aggregation. Although the negative effects are
somewhat mitigated in that the very same community that trades in the security
also decides on its outcome, there is no system in place to specifically
encourage clear bets. This is something that could be improved and would be
useful in avoiding the market becoming swamped with overly subjective wagers.

\subsection{Motivation}

As discussed, there are already numerous prediction markets that exist in the
literature. The Iowa Electronic Markets are the longest running and arguably
most successful, but the options offered to the users on which to trade are too
restrictive. This is a similar issue among all centralised markets, including
InTrade, PredictIt, and the Hollywood Stock Exchange. While their success can
be attributed to their narrow focus on a particular topic, it seems more
interesting to be able to aggregate information from a wider variety of themes,
sacrificing perhaps some predictive accuracy for more widespread forecasts to
be made.

Decentralised prediction markets are not a new concept, however current
examples in the literature lack in the functionality they offer. In the case of
\emph{Omen}, while they allow any user to create a market, they rely on a
single oracle to determine the outcome of the event. This leaves a single point
of failure in the system and opens it to manipulation. For example, listing a
biased news source as the oracle could have a significant effect on the event's
outcome. Although this is mitigated somewhat by displaying to traders the
oracle chosen, this still encourages them to trade on how they believe the
oracle will report the market and not necessarily the market itself. The
mechanism by which \emph{Augur} determines market outcomes appears to be an
improvement over this, in which multiple reporters from the community back
their report of the market outcome with \$REP tokens, thus implementing a form
of reputation system. However, it does not deal with ambiguous bets elegantly,
offering the option for a report a market's outcome as ``invalid''.  Given the
inevitability of such markets in a decentralised setting, this is a key
weakness to \emph{Augur}.

It is therefore well justified to implement the decentralised peer prediction
mechanism of Freeman et al. This not only allows users to create markets for
any event they see fit, but also crowdsources market outcomes by relying on
reports from the community. Thus instead of relying on a single source of
information, which leaves it vulnerable to reporting biases, it gets a more
complete picture of how the users themselves, the ones interacting with the
market, observed the outcome. This can average out the biases present in any
one news source. This also seems to be a better method to deal with ambiguity
than in \emph{Augur}, since the outcome of the market can be influenced by a
reporter's interpretation of a wager. Another issue is that \emph{Augur} has
not been shown to achieve any theoretical guarantees, which should be a key
consideration in an environment in which rational selfish agents are
interacting. This provides a good opportunity to apply a game-theoretic
approach, and the market we implement is incentive compatible, meaning it it in
a user's best interests to report market outcomes truthfully. Although the
mechanism is not budget balanced, it can be fully subsidised by a trading fee
on each transaction, further making it practical and self-sufficient.
