\section{Introduction}

\label{sec:introduction}

Prediction markets are exchange-traded markets\footnote{Markets in which all
transactions are routed through a central source.} which allow users to trade
on the outcomes of future events as opposed to traditional financial
instruments. Users participate by placing bets and buying or selling shares in
the markets these bets give rise to. Since users stake their own money, market
prices should indicate the true beliefs of the userbase and the perceived
likelihood the events have of occurring. Different users will have different
beliefs and knowledge informing their decisions, hence prediction markets provide
a means of aggregating information on events of interest using ``the wisdom of
the crowd''. Shares in these markets are usually traded between \$0 and \$1,
and for binary events a market will typically pay out \$1 for every share held
for a positive outcome, and \$0 otherwise.

Traditional prediction markets are centralised in the sense that the system
provides the possible bets on which to trade, and traders simply choose the
price point and stake at which to participate. Since the system knows all
possible bets beforehand it is simple for it to determine the outcomes of the
markets and pay out the winnings accordingly. There are two issues with this
centralised approach: firstly, it restricts the types of bets that can be made,
since they must be explicitly offered by the market maker; secondly, it
operates on trust -- there is nothing to stop the central market maker from
manipulating the system for their own gain. We aim for a system that avoids
both of these issues.

In this project we implement a \emph{decentralised} prediction market in which
the userbase itself defines the markets and determines their outcomes -- these
are decided by consensus among groups of users, known as arbiters. This removes
the need for a trusted centre, however with no central moderator bets may
become ambiguous or their outcomes subjective, and arbiters may still attempt
to manipulate the outcome of the market for their own gain by submitting false
reports. It is also important that users continue to act according to their
true beliefs, so that we may gather useful information on the events. We base
our design on the incentive compatible peer prediction mechanism introduced by
Freeman, Lahaie, and Pennock~\cite{Freeman2017}, which allows us to crowdsource
market outcomes while incentivising users to act truthfully in all stages of
the prediction market.

The rest of this dissertation is structured as follows: in
Section~\ref{sec:background} we introduce the various types of prediction
markets and different approaches to their implementation. In
Section~\ref{sec:literatureReview} we give an overview of existing markets and
the current literature within the algorithmic game theory community. In
Section~\ref{sec:goals} we state our goals for the project and justify our
reasons for undertaking it. Section~\ref{sec:design} covers the high-level
design of the market on which we base our implementation and introduces some
theoretical considerations we take into account. In
Section~\ref{sec:implementation} we discuss the details of our implementation
of the decentralised market, including the tools we use to develop it.
Section~\ref{sec:projectManagement} covers our approach towards project
management. Finally, in Section~\ref{sec:evaluation} we reflect on the
project's successes and suggest areas for improvement.
